Azure CI docs (#4543)
commercialhaskell/stack: doc/azure_ci.md

<div class="hidden-warning"><a href="https://docs.haskellstack.org/"><img src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/commercialhaskell/stack/doc/img/hidden-warning.svg"></a></div>

# Azure CI

This page documents how to use Stack on [Azure

> CI](http://dev.azure.com/). We assume you have basic familiarity with

Author: Fixed.

> Azure Pipelines. We provide two fully baked example files ready to be

Author: I have added a separate quick start section and also steps for walking through Azure CI.

  - [azure-osx-template.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/commercialhaskell/stack/stable/doc/azure/azure-osx-template.yml) : Template for Azure macOS build
  - [azure-windows-template.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/commercialhaskell/stack/stable/doc/azure/azure-windows-template.yml) : Template for Azure Windows build

  __NOTE__: It is likely going to be necessary to modify this configuration to
  match the needs of your project, such as tweaking the build matrix to alter
  which GHC versions you test against, or to specify GHC-version-specific
  `stack.yaml` files if necessary. Don't be surprised if it doesn't work the
  first time around. See the multiple GHC section below for more information.

Each of these configurations is ready to be used immediately. Steps to make them work:
* For simple Azure configuration, copy-paste the
  [azure-simple](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/commercialhaskell/stack/stable/doc/azure/azure-simple.yml)
  file into `azure-pipelines.yml` in the root of your repository.
* For complex Azure configuration, you need to take the above four

> files and put them in the root of your repository.

Reviewer: I see in the Stack project itself, we have a `.azure` hidden directory where most of the files go. That seems more elegant than adding a bunch of root level files.

Author: The reason I did it like that was because when you create pipeline using the Azure Web interface, it will write down a file named `azure-pipelines.yml` in the root repository. I will modify the documentation to make it into `.azure`.

Author: For the complex configuration, I have modified the docs such that except the main driver file - all others are kept inside `.azure`.

Once you have done that, you need to create a pipeline from the Azure
Web interface to get things started.

The rest of this document explains the details of common Azure
configurations for those of you who want to tweak the above
configuration files or write your own.

*Note:* both Azure and Stack infrastructures are actively developed. We try to
 document best practices at the moment.

## Infrastructure

> Note that you need atleast one agent to build your code. You can

Reviewer 2: "atleast" -> "at least"

Author: Fixed.

> Note that you need atleast one agent to build your code. You can

Reviewer 2: "atleast" -> "at least"

specify which virtual image you want to choose using this configuration:

``` yaml
pool:
  vmImage: ubuntu-16.04
```

The other popular options are `macOS-10.13`, `vs2017-win2016` for Mac
and Windows respectively. You can find the [complete
list](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/agents/hosted?view=vsts&tabs=yaml)
here.

Note that as of now, Azure CI doesn't offer any caching support. You
can use something like [cache-s3](https://github.com/fpco/cache-s3)
for explicit caching, although it may cost you. For a project with an
example usage of `cache-s3`, you can see the Azure configuration of
[stack](https://github.com/commercialhaskell/stack) repository.

## Installing Stack

Currently there is only one reasonable way to install Stack: fetch precompiled
binary from the Github.

```yaml
- script: |
    mkdir -p ~/.local/bin

>     curl -L https://get.haskellstack.org/stable/linux-x86_64.tar.gz | tar xz --wildcards --strip-components=1 -C ~/.local/bin '*/stack'

Reviewer 2: Maybe better to fetch a specific version of `stack`, since that's what we recommend as a best-practice for reproducible CI builds.

>     curl -L https://get.haskellstack.org/stable/linux-x86_64.tar.gz | tar xz --wildcards --strip-components=1 -C ~/.local/bin '*/stack'

Reviewer 2: Our best practice recommendation is to specify an exact `stack` version for CI configurations so that builds are reproducible, so maybe the example should do it that way too (although I notice the Travis docs don't, so it's worth discussing).

Reviewer 2: After speaking with Michael, we decided that the current way (latest stack version) is better for the docs.

  - [azure-linux-template.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/commercialhaskell/stack/stable/doc/azure/azure-linux-template.yml) : Template for Azure Linux build
  - [azure-osx-template.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/commercialhaskell/stack/stable/doc/azure/azure-osx-template.yml) : Template for Azure macOS build
  - [azure-windows-template.yml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/commercialhaskell/stack/stable/doc/azure/azure-windows-template.yml) : Template for Azure Windows build

  __NOTE__: It is likely going to be necessary to modify this configuration to
  match the needs of your project, such as tweaking the build matrix to alter
  which GHC versions you test against, or to specify GHC-version-specific
  `stack.yaml` files if necessary. Don't be surprised if it doesn't work the
  first time around. See the multiple GHC section below for more information.

## Creating Azure Pipelines

Each of these configurations is ready to be used immediately. But
before we go into where to put them, we have to create pipeline for
your project in Azure CI platform:

* Go to [dev.azure.com](https://dev.azure.com). You have to initially
  sign-in to your microsoft account there.

> * Once you have logined into your microsoft account, you have to sign

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Once you have logged in to your Microsoft account, you have to sign
```

Author: Done.

* This will lead you to the [project
  dashboard](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/737477/52465675-6ffd9a00-2ba5-11e9-917e-3dec251fcc87.png)
  page where you can create pipelines.
* Click on "Pipelines" in the left menu. This will load the [pipelines
  page](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/737477/52465673-6ffd9a00-2ba5-11e9-97a4-04e703ae1fbc.png)
  on the right.
* Click on the button "New Pipeline" and you have to follow through
  the wizard there. You need to choose your github repository (or
  Azure repos) and follow the wizard. Note that in the [Configure
  step](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/737477/52465670-6ffd9a00-2ba5-11e9-83a3-9fffdacbf249.png)
  you have to select the "Starter Pipeline". This will open up an
  [editor
  window](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/737477/52465669-6f650380-2ba5-11e9-9662-e9c6fc2682b5.png). You
  can leave the existing yaml configuration there as it is and click
  the "Save and run" button.  That will popup a
  [dialog](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/737477/52465668-6f650380-2ba5-11e9-9203-6347a609e3c4.png). Select
  the relevant option and click "Save and run" button. (Note that this

>   step would have created `azure-pipeliens.yml` in your repository,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  step would have created `azure-pipelines.yml` in your repository,
```

Author: Done.
